I hope you did well with challenge
number 12 trying to layout
these images in a mosaic grid.
And so let's go through exactly
what I did in terms of my code and
how I solved this particular problem.
So here in my HTML, we have
the setup as pretty much as you saw.
The HTML written in the flexbox portion
of the course we have a section.
I've given an id of pop
art to be consistent with
the notation that I was
using inside of flexbox.
We have an h2 called pop art and then we
have our images set in an unordered list
because.This is just a series of images
they could go in any particular order.
Inside of that we have a series
of figures and figure captions.
And those have images and
the figure caption associated with them.
The figure caption has the link.
That's basically the way this
is set up the whole way through.
So what I would need to do to this
HTML in order to make this work,
you'll see that occasionally I
have thrown in a call span too.
And occasionally I've
thrown in a row span too.
So that is what is going
to be responsible for
driving the spanning of the various
cells and columns here.
Inside of my layout.
Because, what we gonna do is we're
gonna declare our grid on our ul,
and then our allies become our children.
So the ul is the grid container,
or the parent,
the allies are the children or
the grid items.
And that's the way this
is all gonna line up.
Alright, so.
As always, the best place to start with
this is to take a look at your image.
And you're going to want to
think about how many columns and
how many rows you have here.
So here we've got 1, 2, 3, 4,
5 rows and we've got 1, 2, 3 columns.
Which is great, and then we just
start setting things up accordingly.
Instead of our CSS if you
scroll going down here,
given you a lot of CSS
that we wrote yesterday.
So starting here inside of the media
query, remember, outside the media query,
the images will just stack
on top of each other.
There's actually no styling for
the pop art portion of the site
outside of the media query.
But inside of it,
we've added our pop art ul.
That will be our display grid.
I want three evenly sized columns.
Easiest way to do that is just to
make them all one fraction big, and
I gave them a 10 pixel gap.
Then I set up my three styles here, call
span 2, a call span 3 and a row span 2.
And all I had to do is set up
a grid column or grid row column.
Property and just set it up to
say span two or span three.
So wherever I happen to place
that in the particular web page.
Then the image is going to span over
that many columns or that many rows.
Notice here too,
I've added at the bottom here for
some reason the figures don't
always fill their li container.
So I found that by adding a height of
100% on the figure help to keep those
evenly sized.
So that is how I solved this
particular problem here,
inside of this particular challenge.
So that's the first part of this.
We've got now our mosaic
grid all coated up.
If you want to take a quick peek
at that inside of the web page so
here's the way it winds up looking.
We have our various images,
they're all of the same height and
it's a fun and engaging layout it.
There was nothing wrong with what we did
with flexbox in terms of all of those
images all next to each other.
But this to me is much more interesting
in from a design perspective.
All right.
So now that we've got that in place, let's
go on to incorporating that grid layout.
Now let's plug it into our main web page.
And what I did was I got rid of the
collections portion of that web page and
substituted in this pop art piece.
If you wanted to keep that
collections layout that we coded in
the flexbox portion of the course.
There's absolutely
nothing wrong with that,
you could just add this on as part
of the web page if you want it.
So we're starting with
the HTML here with our
incorporating this part
into the main home page.
This is the homepage from yesterday.
And I have scrolled all
the way down to the bottom,
close to the bottom anyway,
past the featured print.
Somewhere down around line 83 and I just
copied the HTML that I had generated.
In the 12 A exercise,
pasted it here into my index study HTML.
I didn't need to make any
changes here along the way.
Because I have all of the styling that
I had been previously using is carrying
over here into this design.
The only thing that needs to be added are
those additional classes that are going to
make this a grid system
instead of flexbox.
And the classes that are going to set
up the spans across the columns and
across the rows.
So then here inside of our CSS.
Down around line 157,
this is outside of the media queries.
I had set up our figures
to have one border color.
In this case, I picked color number eight.
You could have picked any of the colors
that probably would have been fine.
I also set up the object position and
the object fit here.
For the image,
the object position is set to zero and
the object fit is set to cover.
To make sure to differentiate these images
from some of the other ones that we had.
Where we were changing some of
the positions in the flexbox
portion of the course.
Okay, and
then inside of our tablet media query,
we're all the way down to line 395
inside of our tablet media query.
And in here I have copied over the call
span and row span columns here.
And then finally the last thing that
I did here on row span 2 figure.
I have a max height of unset.
We had previously put on
the figure elements way far up
towards the top in the mobile
version of this website.
We had set it to have a max height
of 400 pixels for all of our images.
When you bring your mosaic in to
this layout here on this homepage.
That max height of 400 pixels would apply
to everything that's inside of your
grid system.
In that particular case, the way these
images are in their sizes and so forth,
it really chopped them all in pieces.
And so I didn't like that effect.
I just turned off the max height
here by using the unset value.
So it would forget about that
max height of 400 pixels.
And so that fix that problem, particularly
on the row span 2 where that was an issue.
And that's pretty much all I needed to do,
those styles will carry then into
the desktop layout which
is exactly what we want.
So that's how you can code up a little
example over here in isolation and
then very easily integrated
into your homepage.